# Changes

## Comment

I did not browse all issues on github at first, so I did not recognize that some of my fixes have an issue.

## History

* Feature: Added hotkey 's' to sell buildings in city view.  
  * Press 's' to start building selection.
  * Use Up/Down arrow keys to cycle through buildings.
  * Press Space/Enter to sell the selected building.
  * Press 's' or ESC to close building selection.
  * If a building was already sold this turn, a message dialog is shown and no building can be sold again this turn. This is not exactly like in the original game, but more user friendly.
  The original game just exits the city view without any message.
* Feature: Added hotkey 'f' and 's' to set fortified or sentry status for units in city view.  
* Feature: Added hotkeys to CityManager
  * 1-9 to cycle specialists tax, science
  * hotkey 'a' to select units in city. Use arrow keys to cycle through units. Use space/enter to select unit and remove fortified/sentry status. ESC/'a' to close unit selection.
  * Mouse click on unit icon to remove fortified/sentry status.
* Fix: specialists can only be changed if city is greater than 4 size
* Fix: Add help context with alt+h to city production menu items.
  * Fixes NPE if alt+h is pressed in production menu.
* Feature: While showing the intro screen (credits) the first letter of each menu entry can be used as a hotkey to immediately execute the corresponding menu item. Like in the original game. Issue #1.
  * s for Start a New Game
  * l for Load a Saved Game
  * e for EARTH
  * c for Customize World
  * v for View Hall of Fame (not implemented)
* Fix: When a unit with more than one standard moving points (cavalerie, armor etc.) but has less current moving points, and the terrain target is a tile with more than one moving point (mountain, hills, etc.), there is a 10% chance that moving fails. (#180 Terrain difficulty not preventing units from moving). Implemented through observation.
* Fix: City view may show 0 houses.
  * Improved house placement algorithm to add at least 2 houses in city view instead of 0. (Issue original repo: #32, #61 of forked repo)
* Feature: City specialists (tax, science, and entertainer) and City status (e.g. riot, coastal, hydro, auto build, tech stolen, celebration or rapture, building sold) are now saved and restored from save files.
* Feature?: Up to 2 fortified units in a city are now stored in City.
* FortifiedUnits data structure and do not count to unit max count for the civilization.
  * See [Remarks](REMARKS.md#fortified-units-in-cities) for more details.
  * Though this may not be the exact behavior of the original game. Must be tested.
* Fix: Units in a city that are not fortified are now correctly restored from save files (previously these were lost).
* Feature: Extended loading and saving for City properties:  VisibleSize, TradingCities and BaseTrade (still not used though).
* Fix: Fix TradeReport to not show negative trade values (City::TradeTotal)
  * This can happen when corruption exceeds the total trade generated by resource tiles, often in cities located on distant continents with high corruption.
  * Negative trade is not displayed in the city screen, but appears in the trade report and confuses players.
  * This may also happen in the original game, but it was not tested if this is the case.  
* Conquest screen now shows "The entire world hails" and waits for user input before closing the screen/game.
* F12 shows debug menu if enabled (remember using first character of each item to cycle faster through the menu).
* Added Remarks file to document the game behavior and author's thinking.
* Feature: Added respawn of civilizations if it gets destroyed until 0 AD.
  * Its buddy civilization will be spawned (see Civilization.cs).
  * A civ with same color will be spawned only once.
* Fix: Civilization replay destruction handling to use PreferredPlayerNumber to keep civilization id between 0 and 7, otherwise crashes original game and JCivEdit.
* Air units retain movement points on carrier (won't land).
* Settler city animation turned off if animation setting is off.
* Extended window scale factors up to 8 (previously 4)
* Added sub menu "Game behavior menu" to patches menu with settings for the game
  * Canal City crossing (no movement points lost)
  * Fast movement on rivers
  * Other existing items from parent menu
    * Use smart path finding
    * Use auto settlers
* Settings for Canal City
  * Added a setting to allow crossing a canal city without losing all movement points.
  * The default is false, so the original behavior is kept.
* Major refactor of transport logic
  * Use OOP with polymorphism to handle transport logic for land, air, and sea units.
  * A sea unit determines if and which type of unit can be transported.
  * Makes code more readable and maintainable.
* Added fast movement on rivers for unit
  * Can be enabled in the settings (patches)
* Added the settings (formerly only available at the start of the game) to the debug menu.
  * Be aware that not all settings are available within the game or may even crash the game.
* Enhanced debug menu
  * First character of menu items selects the menu item or the next item with the same first character.
  * Up/Down keys on first and last menu item select the last or first item (cycle through the menu).
* Only a single barbarian leader brings ransom.
* Carrier planes are now correctly hidden when carrier is moved (like any other sea unit).
* AI does no more attack with a carrier
* Make Barbarians Diplomat abandon itself if it gets lost.
* Major Refactor tribal hut event handling and introduce interfaces for better separation of concerns and dependency injection.
  * Moved from BaseUnitLand to its own domain/namespace TribalHuts.
  * Cleaned and fixed strange code behavior.
* Prevent a destroyed unit to be shown for a short time in the place of the attacked unit or city (#105)
* Fix: Destroying an AI city does not show the hut on the tile anymore.
* Major Update in Unit Movement
  * Refactoring for better understanding of movement logic.
  * Separation of movement logic for land, air, and sea units (using OOP)
    * Caravans movement logic moved to Caravan.cs
  * Fixing Fuel value for air units, because its value was not being used with/in savegame files and therefore not restored.
  * Logic of air units fixed (disbanding now works correctly for bomber (2rounds), fighter, and nuclear).
  * If "End Turn" is disabled, the player can now continuing moving units without hitting Enter each end of turn.
* Settlers build roads/railroads like in the original CIV1 (<https://github.com/fire-eggs/CivOne/issues/149>)
  * WorkProgress is stored in save file
  * WorkProgress is stored for each settler separately
  * Roads/railroads can be built on ocean (always)
  * Waking up a settler will not reset its progress (civ bug)
* Fixed hit key down in a game menu to not allow going beyond the last item.
* Added a new debug option to load a saved game.
* Added loading a saved game immediately when starting the program (using `--load-slot` option).
* Added README.md
* Fixed NPE at the end of game.
* Fixed sound playback.

## Known Issues

* JCivEdit crashes with NPE if a city is conquered and the saved game is loaded in the editor.
